# Disclaimer

Based on my own understanding and estimation.
With a lot of assumptions and have a lot of parameters to tweak in real world situation.

Feel free to ask questions but please hold it back if I tell you it'll be covered later.
Do feel free to ask after I finish the last part.

# Cooling mechanism

* Can use single photon detuning instead of polarization (though probably harder to setup...)

# Role of scattering

* Atom that's already cold need to scatter

# Cooling limit

* Even with infinitely sharp Raman transition still can't cool atom below recoil limit

    i.e. atoms moving to the left scatter from the left beam first
    atoms moving to the right scatter from the right beam first
    then what happens to atom that's not moving very fast?

    Explaination 1: the first transfer make the second one earlier.
    Explaination 2: the atom that has just half recoil of energy.

* Can't be sub-recoil since this is not a dark state scheme

# Applicability to trapped particles

* The scheme relies heavily on the Doppler effect tied to the velocity
  Cannot work directly as trapping frequency approaches sweep time.
* Falls in the overall class of cooling that makes efficient use of photons.

# Difference between reducing energy and reducing entropy

* Counter examples: preparing atom in a motionally excited state. Atom interferometry.
* Usually cooling simply because it's usually more useful though not always (OP and interferometry)

# How much can a photon do

* Limited to laser coolings that uses photon to reinitialize internal states

    Most (if not all) laser coolings that I've seen works as entropy redistribution and then OP
    If OP can only (as most OP do) go from two states to one, then that only reduce number
    of states by 2x and entropy by hbar.

* There are tricks that you can do to throw in a constant factor.
  Though pretty hard to find working example in practice.

  * Pump from multiple states to one with different photons
  * Drive multiple cooling sidebands directly to ground state
  * OP into part of the box for compression

# Given the above limit, it's not hard to see that the best you can do within this framework
  is to fold your motional states into internal states and only do OP once every folding

* The cooling in this paper could be restructered as such
* By not keeping the atoms in the state that need to scatter, we can do better

    (I believe this is real and not just because of the wrong population distribution.
    In fact, having more population at low temperature is what made the original scheme worse.)

* Also note that this is a degree of freedom that's only possible with explicit OP
  With the original narrow line cooling the spontanious emission cannot be turned off.

# After realizing what this cooling is actually doing, generalization to trapped cooling is
  straightforward, just drive cooling and heating sideband with LZ sweep.
